📖 docs updates for external types and submodule-layouts (#3055)
kubernetes-sigs/kubebuilder: docs/book/src/reference/submodule-layouts.md

you can use the real version as well. However this will only work if the API Module is already available in the VCS.

<aside class="note warning">
<h1>Implications on controller releases</h1>

Since the main `go.mod` file now has a replace directive, it is important to drop it again before releasing your controller module.
To achieve this you can simply run

```shell
go mod edit -dropreplace YOUR_GO_PATH/test-operator/api/v1alpha1
go mod tidy
```

</aside>

#### Using go workspaces

For go workspaces, you will not edit the `go.mod` files yourself, but rely on the workspace support in go.

To initialize a workspace for your project, run ´go work init`.

Now let us include both modules in our workspace:
```shell
go work use . # This includes the main module with the controller
go work use api/v1alpha1 # This is the API submodule
go work sync
```

This will lead to commands such as `go run` or `go build` to respect the workspace and make sure that local resolution is used.

You will be able to work with this locally without having to build your module.

When releasing, make sure to set the environment variable `GOWORK=off` (verifiable with `go env GOWORK`) to make sure

> the release process does not get impeded by a potentially commited `go.work` file

Reviewer: Should `go.work` files ever be committed to a repo? 

If not, maybe it would be best to recommend adding the `go.work` file to the `.gitignore` so there are no accidental commits including it.

Reviewer 2: You are right, i will add a comment here.

# Sub-Module Layouts

This part describes how to modify a scaffolded project for use with multiple `go.mod` files for APIs and Controllers.

Sub-Module Layouts (in a way you could call them a special form of [Monorepo's][monorepo]) are a special use case and can help in scenarios that involve reuse of APIs without introducing indirect dependencies that should not be available in the project consuming the API externally.

> See [Using an external Type](/reference/using_an_external_type.md) for more info on how to consume Types and APIs from other projects externally.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
<aside class="note">
<h1>Using external Types</h1>

If you have a project which needs to do operations and reconcile a Type(CRD) which are owned by another project then, please see [Using an external Type](/reference/using_an_external_type.md) for more info.

</aside> 
```

Reviewer 3: Could we use the note class here to bring more attention?

## Overview

> 

Reviewer 3: Could we also add here a WARNING with something like:

Note that you can create controllers to reconcile types that are onwed and defined for other projects or by Kubernetes API itself. If that is the reason for you are looking at this doc please ensure that you check the legacy doc [Using external types](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kubebuilder/blob/master/docs/using_an_external_type.md ). 

Currently, the tool is not handle this scenarios automatically and you will need to perform some changes manually.  For further information see the [issue 1999](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kubebuilder/issues/1999) opened to address this need. On top of that, be aware that you will need to add the schema for the external type and would be recommended ensure that the API is applied on the cluster when you are initializing the manager (main.go). You might find beneficial give a look in this [blog](https://developers.redhat.com/blog/2020/02/04/how-to-use-third-party-apis-in-operator-sdk-projects#step_4__use_the_api_in_the_controllers)

Reviewer 2: I think the warning would then replace my comment from line 7. I will try to find better wording and put it in the docs. Regarding the API ensurance on the cluster there is not really an option for that for internally created types as well and one has to run make install in this case. I really think that this is not something the guide here should make note of since if you are using an external API I kind of expect this.

- There is always the possibility to extract your APIs into a new repository and arguably also have more control over the release process in a project spanning multiple repos relying on the same API types.
- It requires at least one [replace directive][replace-directives] either through `go.work` which is at least 2 more files plus an environment variable for build environments without GO_WORK or through `go.mod` replace, which has to be manually dropped and added for every release.

<aside class="note warning">
<h1>Implications on Maintenance efforts</h1>

When deciding to deviate from the standard kubebuilder `PROJECT` setup or the extended layouts offered by its plugins, it can result in increased maintenance overhead as there can be breaking changes in upstream that could break with the custom module structure described here.

Splitting your codebase to multiple repos and/or multiple modules incurs costs that will grow over time. You'll need to define clear version dependencies between your own modules, do phased upgrades carefully, etc. Especially for small-to-medium projects, one repo and one module is the best way to go.

> Bear in mind, that it is not recommended to deviate from the proposed layout unless you know what you are doing.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Bear in mind, that it is **not** recommended deviating from the proposed layout unless you know what you are doing.
```
